Employment
Contract of Employment / Appointment Letter
XYZ COMPANY enters into a contract of employment with each individual employee; the conditions as stated in the employee handbook are part of the contract of employment. The contract of employment / appointment letter will be issued in three copies, one for the employee, one for Government authority/ Immigration, and the other to be retained by XYZ COMPANY on the personal file. The contract will specifically indicate the date of signing, the date of work commencement, its nature, the position and its location, its duration if it is for a specified period and the details of salaries and benefits.
The contract of employment / appointment letter states all the terms and conditions of service, under which the employee is employed with XYZ . After obtaining the above information, the necessary work/residence permits for the employee will be obtained by the Company.
All employment offers will be subject to:
Satisfactory medical examination.
Obtaining the necessary work and residence permit.
No objection / release letter where applicable (in the case of employees continuing to work in the UAE or where relation is the sponsor).
Satisfactory references from the previous employer(s) or leaving certificate.
Modifications to the Contract of Employment
Any modification to the contract of employment will be confirmed to the employee in writing.
Government Guidelines
The Government Services Operations (GSO) section under Immigration Authority provides an interface between XYZ COMPANY and various departments and ministries of Dubai.
Please click here for detailed information on all UAE Visa and immigration related services.
Joining Formalities
All formalities relating to joining of new employees will be the responsibility of XYZ, including issuance of the labour contract, arranging residence visa, issuing DIC Card and other related formalities. The date of joining of an employee is the first day the employee reports to work.
Before joining, the employee is required to provide the following certificates/documents and information:
Employee Engagement Form, find a copy here
Non-disclosure Agreement, find a copy here
Life Insurance Beneficiaries Form, find a copy here
Medical Form, find a copy here
Original passport with a validity of at least 6 months
Letter of release from previous employer (if applicable) or from other sponsor
Degree and professional certificates duly attested (where applicable)
Colour photograph with white background, size: 4.3cm X 5.5cm (soft copy)
Marriage certificate (where appropriate)
Birth certificate for all family members (where appropriate)
Local address and permanent address
Home Phone number
Father’s name & Mother’s name
Subsequently all employees must keep XYZ COMPANY informed of any change in the following:
Renewal/expiration of passports and driving licenses
Change in Passport
Change in marital status
Change in number of children/dependants
Change in name
Change in beneficiaries
Relocation Benefits
Relocations to the XYZ COMPANY legal entity region or within XYZ COMPANY geographies is supported with a relocation benefits scheme. The receiving XYZ COMPANY country will bear the costs associated to the relocation benefits.
The Relocation benefits cover the following:
Reimbursement of the shipping cost of personal goods (approval required based on three quotations for 20 ft. container) which need to relocate as part of the transfer. Employee is required to claim back this expense by submitting the actual invoices through an expense claim form. 
One-way air transportation and visa expenses processed through XYZ COMPANY in line with staff level entitlement First month accommodation arranged through XYZ, if required. In the event XYZ COMPANY arranges transportation, the 1st month housing allowance (25% of salary) will be deducted from the salary First month transportation arranged through XYZ, if required. In the event XYZ COMPANY arranges transportation, the 1st month Transportation Allowance (10% of salary) will be deducted from the salary.
To support the initial settling expenses, XYZ COMPANY will provide upon request 6 months HRA advance during the first month of joining as relocation advance, which will be recovered in installments over a period of 6 months from the date of releasing payment against monthly HRA.
For Existing Employees of the XYZ COMPANY legal entity relocating within the XYZ COMPANY region, the following benefits are provided in addition to the above:
One-way air transportation and visa expenses for Family for all staff levels
No deduction for 1st month accommodation
No deduction for 1st month transportation
A relocation allowance equal to 65% salary - in order to cover for any incidental or obligations that
may arise as a result of the transfer
SUMMARY OF RELOCATION BENEFITS FROM XYZ COMPANY & NON- XYZ COMPANY LEGAL ENTITY
Item
Settlement
Existing XYZ legal
Entity Employee
relocating within legal
entity region
Non XYZ legal Entity
Employee relocating
within legal entity
region
Relocation allowance
Transfer to Employee
65% of total monthly salary
Not applicable
1 Month Accommodation
Direct settlement
Covered
Deduction Housing
allowance (25% Salary)
1 Month Transportation
Direct settlement
Covered
Deduction Transport
allowance (10% Salary)
20” Container (incl. insurance)
Against invoice
Covered
Covered
One way Flight
Direct settlement
Covered Family
Covered Employee only
(Family for managers)
Visa costs
Direct settlement
Covered Family
Covered Employee only
(Family for managers)

Employment Related Documents
Cost of Emirates ID and other employment related documents for all employees will be borne by the company at the time of renewal of UAE Residence Visa. Cost of educational certificate attestation will be borne by the Individual.
Job Descriptions
All job roles within XYZ COMPANY have a Job Description (JD). This JD is provided to each employee at interview stage. This document is a summary of your main job roles and is not meant to be a definitive list of all your responsibilities. JDs are not person specific, but rather are a guideline for the role itself. The same Job role will have the same JD.
If you do not have a copy of your Job Description, you should contact your Line Manager or the HR department. JDs are revisited twice by the HR Department to ensure that the job role has not dramatically changed.
Probation and Confirmation
All new employees, other than international seconded XYZ  employees, will be required to complete a probation period of between three and six months. On satisfactory assessment of performance, the services of the employee will be confirmed at the end of the 3-month period. If, at the end of the probation period, the manager feels it appropriate to extend the probationary period for a further 3 months this will be discussed with the employee.
During the probationary period the Company or the employee, may, with 1 day notice terminate the contract, provided that the period has not exceeded 6 months. Where an employee successfully completes the period of probation and remains in the job, the period will be recognised towards total period of service.
Prior to the completion of the probation period the following process will take place:
HR will send an End of Probation Appraisal Form to the Line Manager. A meeting will be held between Line Manager and the Employee to discuss the performance to date during the probation period. The completed End of Probation Appraisal Form will be forwarded to HR.
HR will review the feedback and issue the End of Probation Letter to the Line Manager to give to the Employee. The employee will be awarded a XYZ  Pin in recognition of their permanent status.